Bug 174457 – The finish button state is not correct in the new plug-in project wizard the first time the Template Selection page is visible
Build ID: M20060921-0945
Steps To Reproduce:
The state of the finish button is not properly set in the new plug-in project wizard the first time the Template Selection page is visible.
This only happens when a template is contributed that has a wizard with one or more initially incomplete pages.
I've written a plug-in that provides a template and wizard to illustrate the problem.
The important part of the wizard is in the method templates.MyPage.isPageComplete().
It always returns false.
Import this plug-in, launch a runtime workbench and then perform the following:
1) Select File -> New -> Project.
2) Select Plug-in Project, press next.
3) Enter a project name, press next twice to get to templates page.
4) Select Custom plug-in wizard, press Next.
Notice the finish button is enabled.
5) Press deselect all and then press select all.
Notice the finish button is disabled.
I debugged this and I think I know what's wrong.
To determine if the finish button should be enabled or disabled all the pages of the main wizard are asked if they are complete.
As soon as one page is found that is not complete, the finish button is disabled.
None of the pages of wizards that come with eclipse have incomplete pages.
The wizard I've contributed does have a page that is initially incomplete.
When the Template Selection page is first displayed, the pages of the wizards corresponding to the templates have not been added to main wizard.
Therefore, the finish button is enabled because the page that is incomplete has not been asked for it's status.
After pressing deselect all and select all, all the pages have been added to the main wizard.
When determining the state for the finish button, the incomplete page (contributed from my wizard) is found and the finish button is enabled.
The finish button should not have been enabled the first time the Template Selection page is shown.
It initially has my template selected in the list and my template wizard cannot finish at that point.
I think the pages from the template wizards should have been added to the main wizard as soon as the Template Selection page is visible.
More information: