Bug 440815 – External annotations need UI to be attached to library jars on the classpath
Created attachment 245553 [details]
Adding external annotations to JDK jars
Bug 331651 describes the general requirement for having external annotations so that nullity and other annotations for .jar files can be specified "outside" source code.
Bug 440477 describes the compiler centered code needed; this bug aims to describe and track the IDE user interface changes that are needed to implement this.
External annotations are directly associated with any library .jar that contributes to the classpath.
These can be:
1.
jars in the "project" classpaths of projects.
2.
jars provided by any JDK.
External annotations will be presented as a single file (...) in a to-be-determined format (bug 440474).
Each jar can have 0..1 external annotation files associated with it.
The external annotation file for that jar only takes effect for the classes found (and used) from that jar.
The UI for external annotation files closely mirrors the UI made for connecting Javadoc or sopurce attachments to jars on the classpath: a single "external annotations" file, in the Eclipse-defined format, can be connected to each jar on the classpath.
The locations in the UI where this is exposed are:
1.
Window -> Preferences -> Java -> Installed JRE's.
On a JRE's edit page we see the jar files, and each of them can be associated with a "Source Attachment" and a "Javadoc Location".
There will be added an "External Annotations" entry per jar, with the selected file.
2.
Project Properties -> Java Build Path -> Libraries.
This shows again a list of jars for the project, with Source Attachment, Javadoc Location and some other options.
Here too we'll add an "External Annotations" node.
For both screens adding an external annotations file works the same:
1.
Selecting the "External Annotations" node in the jar list enables the edit/remove buttons.
2.
Clicking edit shows the same UI as the current edit button for "Source Attachment".
It allows selection of the file either from workspace or from "external location".
The selection made will be saved in either .classpath (for a project) or in the JDK's properties stored in preferences.
I would like to contribute the UI implementation of this functionality, in cooperation with Stephan Hermann.
An initial implementation can be seen on Github:
https://github.com/fjalvingh/eclipse.jdt.core/tree/externals (use the externals branch for this one)
https://github.com/fjalvingh/eclipse.jdt.ui
https://github.com/fjalvingh/eclipse.jdt.debug
If accepted, I will rework this implementation and synchronize with Stephan's work.
See the attached screenshots for the proposed UI (as implemented by the Github code).
Once this basic implementation is done extensions can be defined that allow for:
- allowing conversion of "foreign" annotation formats to Eclipse's defined one
- allowing automatic downloading of annotations made for well-known libraries.