37326 – No error reported when <jsp:include> has non-existent target
I'm not sure this is a bug - might be expected behaviour - I'm not expert in
this area.
 Have tried to ascertain what should be happening, by reading the
servlet/JSP spec docs and parts of the TC source code, but I'm still not quite
sure.
 I posted to tomcat-user twice seeking help on this (no responses).
The problem that I'm seeing is that when a JSP page includes one or more JSP
fragments using <jsp:include> actions, but the fragment files don't exist, the
including JSP page is returned to the browser without the fragments included.
It's as if the including JSP ignores the missing fragments and continues being
processed.
 The including page is returned with SC of 200, as if there is no
problem.
Nothing is written to any log file to indicate the problem.
I would have expected this to return an exception or a 404, but neither
happens.
 Is this the expected behaviour?  As it stands, a webapp bug like
this could go unnoticed for quite some time.
 Normally TC is good at bringing
bugs like this to the developer's attention.
See attached war for simple example.
 First discovered on 5.5.9, verified same
behaviour on 5.5.12, both based on fresh TC installs.
I appreciate that once the including JSP has written the part of its response
before the include, the response could already be committed depending on
buffer size, so calling sendError() will cause an IllegalStateException.
Also, may not be possible to return an error page at this point, again because
the response is already committed...?  Perhaps though an exception could be
logged?  Or, perhaps (?)the including page's processing should be stopped,
rather than allowing it to continue.
Some other info: I only discovered that I had omitted the fragment files from
my warfile when I first started TC from NetBeans rather than from TC batch
scripts.
 When I did this, the missing fragments are then reported with SC
404.
 As far as I can tell, it seems that the addition of the NetBeans
HTTPMonitorFilter to conf/web.xml is what causes the 404 to be reported where
it was previously silent.
 Have drawn a blank on why this might be.
For more info (my posts to tc-user) see also: http://marc.theaimsgroup.com/?
l=tomcat-user&m=113034098008166&w=2