Bug 244059 – [breakpoints] Allow breakpoints to specify when they should be overwritten on import
Steps to reproduce:
1.
 Create multiple exception breakpoints
2.
 Export the breakpoints
3.
 Import the breakpoints back to the workspace
If you try this a few times, you will find duplicated exception breakpoints being created.
The import breakpoint logic where it tries to find an existing breakpoint to overwrite is the source of the problem.
 When import is done, we are given the resource name from IImportExportConstants.IE_NODE_PATH.
 The importer then tries to find the resource, and asks the resource for a list of markers that are associated with it.
 Given this list, we try to find a marker that may be associated with the breakpoint based on the marker type, the resource, the line number and charstart.
 If these attributes match, then we assume that the marker is associated with the breakpoint that we are trying to import.
 This marker is then passed to the breakpoint manager for it to create a breakpoint if a breakpoint does not already exist.
The problem with exception breakpoint is that exception breakpoints do not have line numbers / char start and they are tied to the workspace root.
 The workspace root can have multiple markers of the same type associated with it.
 Since we are only checking a subset of attributes when trying to find an existing marker, we can be giving a mismatched marker to the breakpoint manager when we actually try to recreate the breakpoint.
 Since the breakpoint manager cannot match the marker with an existing breakpoint, it creates a new one and results in duplicates.
We also see similar problems with other types of our breakpoints.
 With our JSP breakpoints, we can have multiple JSP breakpoints set at a line.
 This logic also causes duplicated JSP breakpoints to be created when they are imported into the workspace.
Since this is affecting many breakpoint types, and there is no way for us to get around this.
 I am requesting this to be fixed in 3.4.1.